Add docs for pullsecrets in CatalogSources (#28728)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/olm-accessing-images-private-registries.adoc

[source,json]
----
{
        "auths": {
                "quay.io": {
                        "auth": "Xd2lhdsbnRib21iMQ=="
                }
        }
}
----
--

.. Create a secret that contains the authentication credentials for a private registry:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret generic <secret_name> \
    --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=<path/to/registry/credentials> \
    --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
----
+
Repeat this step to create additional secrets for any other required private registries, updating the `--from-file` flag to specify another registry credentials file path.

. Create or update an existing `CatalogSource` object to reference one or more secrets:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: my-operator-catalog
  namespace: openshift-marketplace
spec:
  sourceType: grpc
  secrets: <1>
  - "<secret_1>"
  - "<secret_2>"
  image: <registry>:<port>/<namespace>/<image>:<tag>
  displayName: My Operator Catalog
  publisher: <publisher_name>
  updateStrategy:
    registryPoll:
      interval: 30m
----
<1> Add a `spec.secrets` section and specify any required secrets.

> . If any Operator or Operand images referenced by a subscribed Operator requires access to a private registry, add the authentication details to the global cluster pull secret in the `openshift-config` project.

Reviewer: I think subject-verb agreement is off here? "requires" is referring to "images", right? Might also help to use the complementizer her for clarity, e.g.
`If any Operator or Operand images that are referenced by a subscribed Operator require access [...]`

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/admin/managing-custom-catalogs.adoc

[id="olm-accessing-images-private-registries_{context}"]
= Accessing images for Operators from private registries

If certain images relevant to Operators managed by Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) are hosted in an authenticated container image registry, also known as a private registry, OLM and OperatorHub are unable to pull the images by default. To enable access, you can create a pull secret that contains the authentication credentials for the registry. By referencing one or more pull secrets in a catalog source, OLM can handle placing the secrets in the Operator and catalog namespace to allow installation.

Other images required by an Operator or its Operands might require access to private registries as well. OLM does not handle placing the secrets in target tenant namespaces for this scenario, but authentication credentials can be added to the global cluster pull secret or individual namespace service accounts to enable the required access.

The following types of images should be considered when determining whether Operators managed by OLM have appropriate pull access:

> Index or catalog images:: Index images and catalog images are containerized snapshots of an entire catalog. Index images reference bundle images. If an index or catalog image is hosted in a private registry, OperatorHub can use a secret to enable pull access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CatalogSource images:: CatalogSource images are CatalogSources packaged as container images hosted in image registries. CatalogSources contain a collection of operator bundles. If CatalogSource is hosted in a private image registry, a secret can be used to enable pull access.
```

> Bundle images:: Operator bundle images are containerized Kubernetes manifests and Operator metadata that represent a unique version of an Operator. If any bundle images referenced in a catalog are hosted in one or more private registries, OperatorHub can use one or more secrets to enable pull access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bundle images:: Operator bundle images are bundle metadata/manifests packaged as container images that represent a unique version of an Operator. If any bundle images referenced in a CatalogSource are hosted in one or more private registries, one or more secrets can be used to enable pull access.
```

> Operator and Operand images:: If an Operator subscribed from a catalog uses a private image, either for the Operator image itself or one of the Operand images it manages, the Operator will fail to install because the deployment will not have access to the required registry authentication. Referencing secrets in a catalog source does not enable OLM to place the secrets in target tenant namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Operator and Operand images:: If an Operator installed from a CatalogSource uses a private image, either for the Operator image itself or one of the Operand images it watches, the Operator will fail to install because the deployment will not have access to the required registry authentication. Referencing secrets in a CatalogSource does not enable OLM to place the secrets in target tenant namespaces that operands are installed in.
```

+

> Instead, the authentication details can be added to the global cluster pull secret in the `openshift-config` namespace, which provides access to all namespaces on the cluster. Alternatively, if providing access to the entire cluster is not permissible, the pull secret can be added to the `default` service account of one or more namespaces to target individual tenants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, the authentication details can be added to the global cluster pull secret in the `openshift-config` namespace, which provides access to all namespaces on the cluster. Alternatively, if providing access to the entire cluster is not permissible, the pull secret can be added to the `default` service accounts of the targeted tenant namespaces.
```

.Prerequisites

* At least one of the following hosted in a private registry:

> ** An index image or catalog image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** A CatalogSource.
```

> ** An Operator bundle image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** An Operator bundle.
```

> ** An Operator or Operand image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** An Operator or Operand.
```

* To provide access to all namespaces in the cluster, add authentication details to the global cluster pull secret in the `openshift-config` namespace.
+
[WARNING]
====
Cluster resources must adjust to the new global pull secret, which can temporarily limit the usability of the cluster.
====

.. Extract the `.dockerconfigjson` file from the global pull secret:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc extract secret/pull-secret -n openshift-config --confirm
----

.. Update the `.dockerconfigjson` file with your authentication credentials for the required private registry or registries and save it as a new file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat .dockerconfigjson | jq --compact-output \
    '.auths["<registry>:<port>/<namespace>/"] \//<1>
    |= . + {"auth":"<token>"}' \//<2>
    > new_dockerconfigjson
----
<1> Replace `<registry>:<port>/<namespace>` with the private registry details.
<2> Replace `<token>` with your authentication credentials.

.. Update the global pull secret with the new file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc set data secret/pull-secret -n openshift-config \
    --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=new_dockerconfigjson
----

> * To update individual namespaces, add your pull secret to the `default` service account in each namespace that you want to have access:

Reviewer 3: There are two problems here: 

1. The SA cannot link the `secret` from another namespace, so it requires the user to recreate the `secret` in this individual namespace. details: https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1925377
2. this secret should be linked to the operator's SA, not the `default`. For example, etcd operator, it should be: `oc secret link etcd-operator secret-cs --for=pull`

Author: @jianzhangbjz Updated the step:

http://file.rdu.redhat.com/~adellape/012021/olm_pullsecret/operators/admin/olm-managing-custom-catalogs.html#olm-accessing-images-private-registries_olm-managing-custom-catalogs

Reviewer 3: @adellape I didn't find any updates on this pre-review doc.
